#summary Running the framework in Windows

= Introduction =

To run the poker framework on Windows, you'll need Python.  If you want to use C++ or Java for your bot, follow the instructions for those languages as well.  For C++ and Java, the Python framework uses Google's [http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/ Protocol Buffers] to communicate over stdin and stdout with your bot.

= Running =

== Python ==

[http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.6.1/python-2.6.1.msi Download Python 2.6.1] and install it. 

== C++ ==

Download and install:
 * [http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net/dev-cpp/devcpp-4.9.9.2_nomingw_setup.exe Download Bloodshed C++]
 * [http://www.mingw.org/wiki/HOWTO_Install_the_MinGW_GCC_Compiler_Suite MinGW] select at least the g++ option in the install and use the candidate version (don't use the one that comes with bloodshed)
   * you have to download [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/mingw/gcc-g%2B%2B-3.4.5-20060117-3.tar.gz?use_mirror=mesh g++] manually
 * [http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS MSYS]

Set Dev-Cpp to use the installed MinGW (add {{{c:\mingw\bin;C:\msys\1.0\bin}}} to your PATH environment variable)

== Java ==

[http://www.netbeans.org/downloads/index.html Download Netbeans (Java bundle)] and install it unless you have your own compiler.

= Building the Libraries =

== C++ ==

Build:
 * Run the MSYS link on your desktop.
 * Put the protobuf sourcecode in "C:\msys\1.0\home\username".  No spaces in the path.
 * Follow the REAME file instructions for installing on Unix.
 * After the "make install" copy the libprotobuf files to a place where you can include them in your project.

== Java ==

Download and install:
 * [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Java JDK] 